# Javascript: The Weird Parts: 
## 2. Execution Contexts & Lexical Environments

### 2.6 Conceptual aside:
*	Syntax parsers
 *	A program that reads your code, and determines what it does and if its grammar is valid. These could do something else to your code, but they don’t. 
*	Execution contexts
 *	A wrapper to help manage the code that is running.
*	Lexical environments
 *	Where something sits physically in the code you write. Where you see things written in javascript gives you an idea about where it will be in the computer instructions. Lexical environment = where sth is written, and what surrounds it.

### 2.7 Conceptual aside:
Name/value pair: a name which maps to a unique value.
A name is assigned a value, which can in turn consist of other name/value pairs.
Object: collection of name value pairs.

### 2.9 Global Execution Context
*	This is the thing that is accessible everywhere, to everything in your code.
*	It creates:
 *	A global object
 *	A special variable - ‘this’
*	These are created by the javascript code. Even when there is no code in the javascript, there is still a global object and the variable ‘this’. 
 *	In browsers this is normally the ‘window’ object. At the global level, ‘this’ is the same as ‘window.
*	Global means ‘not inside a function’. When you create variables or functions that are not inside functions, they are attached to the global variable, so ‘a’ is the same as ‘window.a’.
*	When we have functions, we also talk about the ‘outer environment’.

### 2.10 The Execution Context - Creation and Hoisiting
Hoisting: If we use a variable in our code before that variable is declared, it will still work so long as 
Execution context is set up in two phases: 
*	Creation phase: Parser runs through code and recognises variables and functions. It sets these up, before moving onto phase two:
*	Execution phase: By the time the code runs, the parser has already set aside memory for the variables and functions. 
However, variables and functions are treated slightly differently:
*	Functions are taken in their entirety and placed in the memory - they can be called whenever
*	Variables merely have space set aside for them, without the parser knowing what they actually are. If they are called before being defined, it will return undefined.

### 2.11 Javascript and ‘undefined’
*	undefined =/= ‘not defined’.
*	undefined is a special value that means that the variable hasn’t been defined.
*	The initial phase of the execution context sets ALL VARIABLES TO UNDEFINED. i.e. until they are declared, they are equal to the special value ‘undefined’.
*	Never set a variable to undefined, because it is better to know that undefined ALWAYS means ‘you have not set this value’.

### 2.12 Code Execution
*	This simply runs the code LINE BY LINE. So variables will be defined when the code gets to the line where that variable is defined - before this, these variables are ‘undefined’.

2.13 Conceptual Aside: Single Threaded, Synchronous Execution
*	Single threaded: one command is executed at a time. This doesn’t mean that the browser is only doing one thing at a time, but JAVASCRIPT is. 
*	Synchronous: code is executed ‘one line at a time’ and in order.

### 2.14 Function Invocation and the Execution Stack
*	Function invocation: When a function is run in javascript.
*	Execution stack: Every time a function is invoked, a new execution context is created, which runs a create phase, and then runs the execution phase, just like the global context.
 *	Once the context at the top of the stack has run all its lines of code, it is popped of the top of the stack, and the context below that is now the current context.

### 2.15 Functions, Context, and Variable Environments
*	Variable environment: where the variables live and how they relate to each other.
 *	e.g. a var declared inside a function has that function as its variable environment. So different variables with the same name can exist ‘simultaneously’ in different variable environments.
*	Scope: where are we able to see the variable? This is important because even if the variable ‘myVar’ is declared as 2 in a function AFTER being declared in the global context as 1, after that function has run and we are back in the global context, myVar will be 1 again.
### 2.16 The Scope Chain
*	Every execution context has a reference to its outer environment. It will check this outer environment e.g. when dealing with variables which are not defined in its own scope.
 *	So if myVar is not defined in function b, it will check its outer context to see if myVar is defined there. If it is, it will use that definition.
*	Which outer environment the context has a reference to depends where that context sits LEXICALLY. 
 *	e.g. if a function is defined within another function, its outer environment is the function within which it is defined. If it is defined in the global context, then its outer environment is the global context. 
 *	Even if it is called within a certain function, its outer environment will still be the context where it is defined.
*	The scope chain is the chain of outer environments that are linked, eventually reaching the global context. E.g. function b is defined inside function a, function a is defined in the global context. So the chain goes from b to a to the global context.

### 2.17 Scope, ES6, and ‘let’
*	Scope: where a variable is available in your code (and if its even the same variable)
*	‘let’ will be a new way of declaring variables. This will allow block scoping.
 *	You will get an error if you try to call a variable before it is defined.
 *	Also, if it is declared in a block (e.g. an if statement) then it can only be used in that block.

### 2.18 What About Asynchronous Callbacks?
*	Asynchronous: more than one at a time, where lots of code is running at the same time.
*	There are other things running apart from Javascript running in a browser - rendering engine, http requests, etc. Javascript is connected to these.
*	Javascript has an ‘event queue’ which is run when the execution stack is empty, i.e. when all the code has run. Events that are relevant are placed in this event queue, and after the execution stack is empty, Javascript will look at them and create a new execution context for them.
*	So asynchronous events do not really happen in Javascript. It always finishes running the code that it is on, and only then looks at the event queue to process that.
