## 3. Types and Operators

### 3.19 Types and Javascript
 *	Dynamic typing: you don’t tell the engine what type your variable is. The engine figures out what type the variable is as it runs.

### 3.20 Primitive Types
 *	This is a type of data that represent a single value, i.e. not an object. There are six types in JS:
  *	Undefined: a lack of existence - don’t set things to this.
  *	Null: a lack of existence
  *	Boolean: true or false
  *	Number: it’s a floating point number
  *	String: sequence of characters enclosed by ‘ or “
  *	Symbol: new one for ES6.

### 3.21 Operators
 *	Operator: a special function that is syntactically written differently (to other functions)
 *	The operator ‘+’ is in fact just a function that takes two parameters and returns the sum. But it is syntactically written differently.
 *	Likewise, the ‘>’ operator takes two parameters and returns a boolean.
 *	These operators are just pre-written functions, provided by Javascript.

### 3.22 Operator Precedence and Associativity
 *	Operator Precedence: which operator function gets called first (when they are in the same line of code). Higher precedence is executed first.
 *	Operator Associativity: what order operator functions are called in (if they have the same precedence) - left-to-right, or right-to-left?
  *	e.g. for the ‘=‘ operator has right-to-left associativity, so ‘a = b = c’ will make all the values the same value as c. 
 *	Precedence: HIGH: LOW

### 3.24 Coercion
 *	Coercion: converting a value from one type to another. Javascript automatically coerces various types in certain situations.
 *	For instance if you try: 1 + ‘2’, then Javascript will coerce the number 1 into a string ‘1’ and will return 12.

### 3.25 Comparison Operators
 *	Coercion and associativity lead to problems with certain operators, like `(3 < 2 < 1)` returns true because associativity is right-to-left, so `3<2` returns ‘false’, which is coerced to 0 so `(0<1)` is true.
 *	It isn’t always obvious what JS will coerce things to, e.g. undefined coerces to NaN, but null coerces to 0.
 *	This is why it is best to use === instead of ==; === will not coerce like == will. Also try to only compare values that you know will be the same type.

### 3.27 Existence and Booleans
 *	There is a Boolean() function as well as a Number() function
 *	We can use `if (a) {//codecode}` to check for a’s existence. The code will run if a is anything BUT false, undefined, null or 0.

### 3.26 Default Values
 *	If we call a function without a parameter, Javascript simply calls the function with ‘undefined’ as the parameter.
 *	We can avoid this by using `parameter = parameter || ‘default value’`
 *	The operator returns the first value that can be coerced to ‘true’ - in this case, if parameter is undefined, then it will return the string ‘default value’.

### 3.27 Framework Aside: Default Values
 *	When we run several scripts within the same html document, Javascript simply stacks all the code in the global context. So if two scripts use the same value name, this can cause conflicts.
  *	To avoid this we can use [window.libraryName = window.libraryName || ‘my name’;]
  *	This will leave the variable library name as it is, unless it is undefined or null, in which case it will call it ‘my name’. 
 *	If there are three scripts in the html document, they will be run in order, so if script1 is on top and script 2 is second, then script 2’s definition of the variable will replace script 1’s.

