## 4. Objects and Functions

### 4.30 Objects and the Dot
*	Objects are collections of name/value pairs. How do these reside in the computer’s memory?
*	Objects can have primitive properties, object properties, or functions/methods.
*	Ways to set or access properties for `var person = new Object();`
 *	Computed Member Access: `person[‘firstname’] = ‘Tony’;`
  *	This is useful when you need to change what you are accessing. You can use a variable instead of a string, and thus change the variable to access different properties with the same command.
 *	Member Access: `person.firstname = ‘Tony’;`

### 4.31 Objects and Object Literals
*	An easier way to create a new object is `var person = {};`
*	You can also use this to set up new properties within the new object: 
 *	`var person = { firstname: ‘Tony’, lastname: ‘Alicea’ };`
*	Object literals are useful because you can create objects ‘on the fly’, e.g. when calling a function, you can create the object to pass as the parameter:
 *	`function greet(person) { console.log(‘Hi ‘ + person.firstname); }`
 *	We can then create a person to pass the function: 
 *	`greet({firstname: ‘Mary’, lastname: ‘Doe’ });`

### 4.32 Framework Aside: Faking Namespaces
*	a Namespace is a container for variables and functions. But Javascript doesn’t have them.
*	However, we can fake these using objects. e.g. we have `var greet = ‘Hello’;` and we also have `var greet = ‘Hola’; `. These will collide and override each other, so we can separate them using objects:
 *	`var english = {greet: ‘Hello’};`
 *	`var spanish = {greet: ‘Hola’};`
*	Now they no longer collide! This can be repeated

### 4.33 JSON and Object Literals
*	JSON looks a lot like object literal notation. XML was too slow, so JSON was developed, based on object literal notation in Javascript.
*	But there are differences. All JSON syntax is valid in Javascript, but not all JS object literal notation is valid in JSON. JSON is more strict. There must be quotes around the value names.
*	There are built-in functions in JS for dealing with JSON:
 *	`JSON.stringify(objectLiteral)` will turn a JS object literal into a JSON string.
 *	`JSON.parse(‘{ “firstname”: “Mary” }’);` will turn a JSON string into an object

### 4.34 Functions are Objects
*	First class functions: everything you can do with other types (strings, booleans etc.) you can do with functions. Javascript has them. They are powerful.
*	Functions are objects. They can have properties just like other objects - name/value pairs, objects, other functions. They have two important hidden properties:
 *	Name: functions can be anonymous, but they often have names.
 *	Code: this is a property of the function that is ‘invocable’ - it can be run. The code that you write in a function IS NOT the function. The code just happens to be one of the properties of the function
*	We can add properties to functions in the same way we would add them to other objects.
 *	FUNCTIONS ARE OBJECTS.

### 4.35 Function Statements and Function Expressions
*	Expression: a unit of code that results in a value. This value doesn’t have to save inside a variable.
*	Statement: a unit of code that merely does something without necessarily returning a value.
*	We can create a function that runs other functions like this: 
 *	`function run(a) { a(); } `
 *	` run(function() {console.log(‘hi’); }); ` //We then pass it another function as a parameter!

### 4.36 By Value vs By Reference
*	This is relevant when we make one thing equal another. See the code below:
		`var a = 20;`
		`var b = a; `
*	Here we have made b equal to a BY VALUE (because a is a primitive value). This means that Javascript creates a copy of that value in a different place in the memory, and then makes b equal to that. So b = 20. So we can change a without having any effect on b.
*	When dealing with functions and objects, however, this is different:
		`var c = {greeting: ‘hi’ };`
		`var d = c;`
		`c.greeting = ‘hello’;`
		`console.log(d.greeting); `//returns ‘hello’
*	Here we have made d equal to c BY REFERENCE (because c is an object), which means that Javascript does not create a copy. c and d simply both point to the same place in the memory, where this object is stored. This means that if we change something about c, then the same thing will have changed about d.
*	However, we can still change c to point to a different place without affecting d by pointing it to a new function that has not yet been created.
		`c = {name: ‘Owen’};`
*	Mutation: when things (like objects) are changed.
*	Side: why is b equal to a after we run `b = a`

### 4.37 Objects, Functions, and ‘this’
*	The execution phase focuses on the code portion of a function.
*	The javascript engine gives us an object called ‘this’ in ever execution context. However, ‘this’ points to different things in different circumstances.
 *	In the global object, ‘this’ points to the (global) Window object.
 *	In a function that is just invoked, ‘this’ still points towards to the global object.
 *	In a method that is in an object, ‘this’ points to the object that the function is in.
 *	However, in a function that is in an object but is not a method of that object (e.g. it is an internal function OF a method), ‘this’ points to the global object again. This is a problem
 *	To avoid it, we can use `var that = this` at the beginning of our method, and thereafter use that instead of this. Because they are equal to the same thing BY REFERENCE, so this will change if that is changed. We can also keep on using that in internal functions, because it doesn’t change.

### 4.38 Arrays - Collections of Anything
*	Javascript is dynamically typed, so arrays can hold values of any types. You can put objects or functions inside arrays together.

### 4.39 ‘arguments’ and spread
*	As well as the variable environment, outer environment, and ‘this’, Javascript also gives you ‘arguments’: a special keyword
*	It is important that you can invoke a function without passing it the parameters it expects. In this case it just sets the parameters to undefined and executes the code like that.
*	You can get around this with `parameter = parameter || ‘default’`
*	The arguments keyword is an array-like object that consists of all the parameters passed to a function, even the ones that it didn’t expect. It is not an array - it doesn’t have array methods.
*	‘spread’ is similar to array. You simply write …soemthing in the parameter space (with the other actual parameters and then use that as an array, which I think IS actually an array.

### 4.40 Framework Aside: Function Overloading
*	Function Overloading: when you have a function of the same name with different numbers of parameters. Javascript doesn’t have this. Instead, we must simply make another function that calls the first function but automatically passes one or more parameters, so there are fewer parameters to call in this second function because some of them are automatically passed.

### 4.41 Syntax Parsers
*	Important to think of the parser going through the code letter by letter and anticipating certain things based on what it is reading. If it sees something it doesn’t expect, it throws an error.

### 4.42 Dangerous Aside: Automatic Semicolon Insertion
*	Dangerous asides: places when it’s really easy to make a mistake and really hard to debug it once you have.
*	Anywhere the syntax THINKS a semicolon will be, it will put one. Sometimes this causes something completely different to what you want.
 *	So always watch when you use new lines, and always insert your own semicolons.

### 4.43 Framework Aside: Whitespace
*	We can use whitespace very liberally, e.g. to insert comments in between pretty much everything.

### 4.44 Immediately Invoked Function Expressions
* Difference between making a function statement (`function fName(...) {...}`) and using function expression (`var fName = function(...) {...}`): function statement is put into memory in execution phase, but a function expression is not
* When using a function expression, we can immediately invoke it by following the code of the function using paratheses: `var fName = function(...) {..}();`
* This means that `fName` is now set to whatever value that function returns. fName is not a function. The function has been immediately invoked, and fName is the value that it returned.
* We can have lines of code that are simply expressions, like `3;` that are valid code but don't do anything. We can have standalone function expressions that exist like this, but they must go in parentheses so that the parser knows that it is not a function statement (as most lines starting with 'function' are):
```
(function(name){
   return 'Hello' + name;
}('John'));
```
* This tells the parser that this is an expression (only expressions go in parentheses). We can immediately invoke the function by following the code with parentheses as above. 
* This form appears in many frameworks and libraries.

### 4.45 Framework Aside: IIFEs and Safe Code
* Using IIFEs, we can run large amounts of code in a new execution context which is created for the function. 
* This means it can't interfere with the global context and can't be interfered with by the global context.
* Note that if we want something from the global context, we can simply make space for it in the function as a parameter, and then pass it the name of the global context (normally 'window') as that parameter. We can then use dot notation to access its variables and methods.

### 4.46 Understanding Closures
* Look at the following code: 
```
function greet(whattosay) {

   return function(name){
      console.log(whattosay + ' ' + name);
   }
}

var sayHi = greet('Hi');
sayHi('Tony');
```
* We have a function that returns a function. The outer function is run with the parameter 'Hi', assigning the inner function to sayHi. We then run this function with the parameter 'Tony'. 
* The result is 'Hi Tony', even though at the time this is run, the context that contained the parameter 'Hi' has been popped off the execution stack.
* This is because after an execution context is popped off the stack, its 'memory space' is retained for a bit, including any variables that were stored there. 
* When the inner function is invoked, the engine can't find the whattosay variable. However, the sayHi context still has a reference to the memory space of the greet context, even though that context has gone. The inner context has 'closed in' the variables that it would have reference to - this is a closure.
* This is only the case for inner functions that are created inside other functions - the inner functions will have reference to the variables from their outer functions contexts, even when those contexts have run and popped.

### 4.47 Understanding Closures - Part 2
* More code:
```
function buildFunctions() {
   
   var arr = [];
   
   for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
      arr.push(function() {
         console.log(i);
      });
   }
   
   return arr;

}

var fs = buildFunctions();

fs[0]();
fs[1]();
fs[2]();
```
* This console.logs three 3's. Why is this? It is because the inner function is only executed after the whole buildFunctions function has run. 
 * The variable 'i' is still in the memory, and it is set to 3 because this is the value it had at `return arr`.
* When the inner functions are run at the end, they each look to the outer context to find the variable i, and so they each find 3.

### 4.48 Framework Aside: Function Factories
* A factory is a function that makes/returns other things. We can make use of closures to make function factories like the following: 
```
function makeGreeting(languages) {

   return function(firstname, lastname) {
      if (language === 'en') {
         console.log('Hello ' + firstname + ' ' + lastname);
      }
      
      if (language === 'es') {
         console.log('Hola ' + firstname + ' ' + lastname);
      }
   }
}
``` 
* We can then create new functions for `greetEnglish` and `greetSpanish`:
```
var greetEnglish = makeGreeting('en');
var greetSpanish = makeGreeting('es');
```
* We called makeGreeting twice, so two different execution contexts were created one after the other. In the first, the parameter language was 'en', and in the second, 'es'. 
 * This means that when greetEnglish is invoked, even though the makeGreeting context has popped off, greetEnglish still has access to the variables of the context IN WHICH it was created, namely, the FIRST makeGreeting context - the one where language = 'en'. greetSpanish has access to the variables of the second makeGreeting context - language = 'es.
 
### 4.49 Closures and Callbacks
* Callback function: A function you give to another function, to be run when the other function is finished, e.g. 
```
function tellMeWhenDone(callback) {
   
   var a = 1000; // These are irrelevant
   var b = 2000;
   
   callback(); // the callback - this tells the function given as a parameter.
   
}

tellMeWhenDone(function() {
   console.log('I am done!')
});
```
* So the callback function is given a parameter which is another function, and the callback function calls that function when it is finished.

### 4.50 call(), apply(), and bind()
* All functions have access to special methods, like call(), apply(), and bind().
* These have to do with the 'this' variable.
* `logPersonName = logName.bind(person)` will create a new copy of the logName function, but with `person` (an object) as the 'this' variable in the function.
* This does not mean that `person` is the parameter of the function. We can add parameters
* Call does the same as bind, but instead of creating a new function, it simply executes the function, but allows you to determine what the 'this' variable should be. 
* Apply does the same as call, but parameters must be passed in an array.
* So call, apply and array look like this (if the function has two parameters:
 * newFunction = function.bind(object, para, para);
 * function.call(object, para, para);
 * function.apply(object, [para, para]);
* These can be used for 'function borrowing': we use the method of one object on another object:
* `person.getFullname.call(person2);`
 * This uses the method of person on the variable person2. Make sure that person2 has all the relevant properties for the method to do its job. 'apply' would do the same.
* We can also use this for 'currying':
``` 
function multiply(a, b) {
      return a*b; 
}

var multiplyByTwo = multiply.bind(this, 2);
multiplyByTwo(4); // 8
```
* Passing bind a parameter as well as the object for the 'this' variable sets that parameter as the 'permanent' parameter for the function that is returned. In this case, 2 is set as the permanent parameter for a in the new function, which will only take one parameter.
* Currying: creating a copy of a function but with some preset parameters.

### 4.51 Functional Programming
* JS looks like Java, but actually has more in common with Lisp or other languages, due to its first class functions. These allow 'functional programming'.
```
var arr1 = [1, 2, 3];
function mapForEach(arr, fn) {
      var newArr = [];
      for (var i=0; i < arr.length; i++) {
            newArr.push(
               fn(arr[i])
            )
      };
      return newArr;
}
var arr2 = mapForEach(arr1, function(item) {
      return item * 2;
}); // [2, 4, 6]
```
* Here we have made a function that applies a function to each item in an array. Its parameters are the array and the function to be applied, which can be created on the fly.
* What if we want to pass another parameter into the function apart from the array item. What if we want to choose what to multiply by?
```
var multiplyByX = function(para) {
      return function(number, item) {
            return item * number;
      }.bind(this, para);
};
var arr3 = mapForEach(arr1, multiplyByX(3));
```
* This will call mapForEach on arr1 and the function returned by multiplyByX, which will have 3 bound to the number parameter, and so will only accept one other parameter, which will be the item in the array.
* Note that functions should do their best not to mutate data - instead it should return new data, as above - arr1 is not changed, but new arrays are returned.

### 4.52 Functional Programming Part 2
* Underscore.js is a library that helps when working with arrays and collections of objects.
* Underscore.js is open source and you can read through it to learn things for free! As is the case with many other libraries.
* To use is, you set up a script tag to the underscore library.
* It offers functions like _.map and _.filter which allow us to use functions on other things.