## 5. Object-Oriented Javascript and Prototypal Inheritance

### 5.53 Conceptual Aside: Classical vs. Prototypal Inheritance
* Inheritance: One object gets access to the properties and methods of another object.
* Classical Inheritance: what most languages have. This is different from what Javascript has, which is prototypal inheritance.

### 5.54 Understanding the Prototype
* All objects in javascript have a 'proto' reference to that object's prototype, whose properties and methods it has access to.
 * if `obj1`'s prototype is `obj2` and `obj2` has the property `prop2`, then `obj1.prop2` will point directly to the `prop2` property of `prop2`, even though it looks like it is pointing at a property of `obj1`.
* You can set the prototype of an object like this:
```
john.__proto__ = person;
```
* Now john has access to the properties and methods of person. However, we shouldn't do this EVER in real life. 

### 5.55 Everything is an Object (or a primitive)
* Everything in javascript has a prototype - there is an array prototype, a function prototype, and an object prototype. 
* The object prototype is at the bottom of every prototype chain - it is the prototype of the function prototype and the array prototype.

### 5.56 Reflection and Extend
* Extend is something that is possible through reflection.
* Reflection: an object can look at itself, listing and changing its methods and properties.
* `john.hasOwnProperty('firstname');` will return true if john has a property called `firstname` but not if john's prototype has that property.
* `_.extend` is a function from the underscore library that accepts a number of parameters and adds to the first parameter all the properties and methods of the other parameters (these parameters are objects).

