## 6 - Building Objects

### 6.57 Function Constructors, 'new', and the History of Javascript
* Javascript was named after Java so that Java developers would get on board. The object constructor was made to emulate Java.
```
function Person() {
    this.firstname = 'John';
    this.lastname = 'Doe';
}
```
* If we make a function constructor to make Persons, we can use it like this: `var john = new Person();` If we now console.log `john`, we get `Person {firstname: "John", lastname: "Doe"}` - not just an object, but a person object.
* When we use the `new` keyword, this creates an empty object, and then invokes whatever function followed `new`, i.e. in this case, `Person`. It runs this function, **but with `this` pointing at the new empty object that was created**. This no-longer-empty object is then returned, i.e. `john` is set to the object.
** This is only if the function does not return anything. If it returns anything, then john is set to what is returned, like a normal function.
* We can use parameters when calling these function constructors, as if they are normal functions. 
```
function Person(firstName, lastName) {
    this.firstname = firstName;
    this.lastname = lastName
}
```
* Function constructors: A normal function that is used to construct objects.
* Key takeaway: function constructors are really just functions like other functions, just with a little bit of added functionality.


### 6.58 Function Constructors and '.prototype'
* So how do we set the prototype when we are using function constructors?
* Every function has a prototype property, which is never used except when the function is being used as a function constructor. This is **NOT** the prototype of the function, but it is the prototype of any object created using that function constructor. 
* This means that you can add things to multiple objects that share the same prototype.
* We usually put properties in the function constructor, but methods in the prototype. Why? Because these things take up space. If we put methods in the function constructor, then each object created has its own version of the method. If we put it in the prototype, then we have the same functionality, but there is only one version of the method. However, properties will often be different for each object created, so we can't put them on the prototype.

### Dangerous Aside: 'new' and functions
* If you are using a function constructor and you try to use it to create a new object, but you forget the 'new' keyword, bad things happen: `var john = Person('John', 'Doe');` This will simply run the function, and as it does not return anything `john` will be set to undefined.
* This is why we always capitalise function constructors - it is easier to spot if we are using them without 'new'.

### Conceptual Aside: Built-In Function Constructors
* Javascript comes with some function constructors built in, e.g. `var a = new Number(3);` will return something that looks like a primitive value, but is in fact an object: `Number {[[PrimitiveValue]]: 3}` - it still has access to the number methods though.
* Same with `new String`.
* If you call a method on a string e.g. `'John'.length`, the string is converted to an object with String as the prototype.

### Dangerous Aside: Built-In Function Constructors
```
var a = 3;
var b = new Number(3);
a === b // returns false, because a is a number and b is an object.
```
* Moment.js has lots of useful date functionality that you can use when dealing with dates.

### Dangerous Aside: Arrays and for...in
* Arrays are objects, and we can loop through their elements in the same way we can with objects.
* In fact, the elements of arrays are name-value pairs, with the names as the indexes of the array, e.g. `['j', 'h', 'k']` is in fact an object `{0: 'j', 1: 'h', 2: 'k'}`. 
* This means that if we alter the array prototype with some new feature, a for..in loop will treat this as one of the array's elements. So avoid this. Just use a regular for loop.

### Object.create and Pure Prototypal Inheritance
* There is another way to create objects which doesn't try to mimick other languages.
* 