23. Static Methods & final
24. String Methods
25. toString()
26. Inheritance
27. Packages
28. Interfaces
29. Public, Private, Protected

### 23. Static Methods & final
* Static variables are known as class variables (as opposed to instance variables) because the whole class just has one of them. 
```java
class Thing {
  public String name;           // each instance of Thing will have its own name
  public static String description; // this will be the same for all instances of Thing

  public void showName() {
    System.out.println(description + ": " + name); // has access to static and non-static variables.
  }

  public static void showDesc() {
    System.out.println(description)
    // System.out.println(name) --- this won't work - static methods only have access to static variables.
  }
}
```
* Static variables can be accessed by their class, e.g. `Thing.description` rather than by instances of that class e.g. `thing1.description`
* Static variables could be useful e.g. for counting the number of instances of a class that have been created, or for assigning a unique id to each instance. This could be done by assigning each instance's `ID` to the static variable `count`, which could be incremented each time a new instance is created.
* Java also has a version of const: `public final static int LUCKY_NUM = 7;` - this will make a static int which cannot be re-assigned. Note that the value must be set when it is declared.

### 24. String Methods
* We often add to strings using `+=`. Every time you use this, it creates a new string and assigns the variable to the new string combined with the old string. Instead, we can use StringBuilder:
```java
StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder("");
sb.append("My name is Sue");
sb.append(" ");
sb.append("and I am a lion tamer");
String s = sb.toString();
```
* You can also method chain these methods. Another method that does the same thing is StringBuffer, which is threaded.
* `printf` is useful for printing variables and things: 
```java
System.out.printf("Total cost: %d, total amount: %d", 5, 120) // d = digit
System.out.printf("Total cost: %-10d, total amount: %d", 5, 120) // -10 = field 10 chars wide
System.out.printf("Total cost: %.2f", 5.5678) // for floats, .2 = 2 d.p.
```

### 25. toString()
* It is good to define a toString() method within a class so that you can then log that class at any point and you will get a meaningful message in the console:
```java
class Frog {
  private int id;
  private String name;

  public Frog(int id, String name) {
    this.id = id;
    this.name = name;
  }

  public String toString() {
    return String.format("%4d: %s", id, name); // d = id, s = name - formatted strings!
  }
}
```
* You can then call `System.out.println(frog1)` 

### 26. Inheritance
* When a class inherits from another, it can access all its public methods, and any non-private variables.
* This can be done by defining the class like so: `public class Car extends Machine {...}`
* The child class can override methods from the parent class by defining that method again in its own scope. It MUST use the same header. e.g. if the parent had a method called `public void start()` then the child must have that same header to override. You can check if you are really overriding by putting `@Override` above the method that is overriding its parent's method.
* Variables: child class cannot access the parent's private variables, but variables without a specifier or with a `protected` specifier can be accessed from the parent.

### 27. Packages
* Packages let you organise your code better. They also prevent class conflicts - if you have two classes with the same name in the same package, there is a conflict, but if they are in two different packages, there is no problem.
* If you put a class in a package, the package statement should be the first line of the file. This is in the format `package packageName;`
* To use a class from another package, you must import it. If you have a class called `fish` in a package called `ocean`, import it with `import ocean.Fish;`
* Eclipse will also organise your imports for you automatically if you want.
* Packages are hierarchichal in the same way that files are. `parent.child.class` will give you a class in the child package which is in the parent package.
* Convention with naming packages is that you reverse your website name, e.g. `com.foundersandcoders.className`. This is to avoid conflicts if someone else if using your code.

### 28. Interfaces
* You can make interfaces which are then implemented by classes/objects:
```java
public interface Info {
  public void showInfo();
}
```
* The method in the interface is not defined in the interface. It is merely stated and given parameters (if any).
* Any class which *implements* this interface must then have a method with that header, which it must then define.
```java
public class Machine implements Info {
  public void showInfo() {
    // some code here...
  }
}
```
* If this class tried to implement Info without including this method, it would throw an exception.
* Some stuff about info-specific methods, which is interesting.

### 29. Public, Private, Protected
* If you declare a public class, method or variable, it can be accessed from any class in the package. This is generally bad practice in the case of variables, which should be encapsulated and only accessed through methods.
* If you want a public variable, you generally want it to be constant, so do it with `public final static int ID;` - this is not bad practice.
* Private variables or methods can only be accessed from within their class. They can't even be accessed by child classes which inherit other variables.
* Protected variables can't be accessed by any old class, but can be accessed by child classes. To summarise:
* Private: only within same class
* Public: from anywhere
* Protected: subclass but not if in different package
* No modifier: same package only
