### 30. Polymorphism
* Things get a bit complicated when you make objects equal to other objects of different classes. Here, Tree inherits from Plant
```java
Tree myTree = new Tree();

Plant myPlant = tree; // myPlant has the class Plant, but it is also the object myTree
                      // which has the class Tree. How will this work?

myPlant.grow();     // both Plant and Tree have a grow() method. myPlant uses Tree's method, which overrides Plant's method

myPlant.shedLeaves(); // only Tree has this method. myPlant cannot use it (it is a Plant). This line will cause an error.
```
* This is confusing. It is the variable (`myPlant` or `myTree`) which determines **which** methods the object is permitted to call, based on what that variable was initialised as, EVEN IF the object it was assigned DOES HAVE the method, e.g. with myPlant - myPlant has the method shedLeaves() (or at least, the object is is assigned to does), but cannot call it because it is a plant.
* It is useful to remember that child classes will always be able to call methods which their parents have.

### 31. Encapsulation
* Why make things private? 
* Good practice is generally to make everything you can private. Especially data and variables. These should only be accessible outside of the class through getters/setters.
* Methods should also be private unless you need some other class or user to have access to them.

### 32. Casting
* There are lots of number types in Java:
```java
byte byteValue = 20;
short shortValue = 55;
int intValue = 888;
long longValue = 224398;

float floatValue = 8834.4f;
double doubleValue = 32.4;
```
* The difference between double and float is that double is more precise. Consensus seems to be that you should generally use double.
* You can change number types from one to the other by *casting*:
```java
int newIntValue = (int)floatValue;  // 8834 -- casting simply truncates the end.
double newDoubleValue = intValue;   // 888.0 -- doesn't need a cast method.
```
* Casting from one type to another is something that can go wrong. Always think about whether you have enough memory for whatever you're casting.

### 33. Upcasting & Downcasting
* Casting is to do with variables. Once you've created an object, you can't change the actual methods and variables in it by upcasting and downcasting. However, remembering above that myPlant could not shedLeaves even though it was a Tree because it was initialised as a Plant, we can fix this by downcasting.
```java
Tree newTree = (Tree)myPlant;
```
Here we have cast the object myPlant (which was a Tree all along, remember!) into a new variable of class Tree. newTree will now be able to call shedLeaves(), even though it is the exact same object as myPlant, which could not call shedLeaves().
* This only works when we have an object which was initialised as a parent class, which happens to be an object of a child class. This can then be downcast to the child class. If it is ONLY an object of the parent class, then you will not be able to downcast it.