34. Using Generics
35. Generics and Wildcards
36. Anonymous Classes
37. Reading Text Files

### 34. Using Generics
* Generic class is a class that can work with other objects.
* ArrayLists are arrays which manage their size internally. They are a member of the Java Collections framework.
* Before Java 5 you would have to do this:
```java
ArrayList list = new ArrayList();

list.add("apple");
list.add("banana");

String fruit = (String)list.get(1); // .get returns an object - must be downcast to String.
```
* With generics, you can do this:
```java
ArrayList<String> strings = new ArrayList<String>();

strings.add("cat");
strings.add("dog");

String animal = strings.get(1); // doesn't need to be downcast because type has been specified.
```
* You can also have parameterised classes that have more than one type of argument:
```java
HashMap<Integer, String> map = new HashMap<Integer, String>();
```

### 35. Generics and Wildcards
* We run into problems with things like ArrayLists when we start passing in classes and subclasses.
* If a method `public static void showList(ArrayList<Machine> list)` accepts as its parameter an ArrayList of Machines, we might think that if Cameras are a subclass of machine, it would be able to accept an ArrayList of Cameras. However, this is not the case.
* Instead, we can use a wildcard: `public static void showList(ArrayList<?> list)` - this method can take an ArrayList of anything. Unfortunately this means that you can only use Object-specific methods or variables within the method, because otherwise Java doesn't know if the things passed in will have those methods.
* We can also use wildcards in conjunction with other classes: `public static void showList(ArrayList<? extends Machine> list)` - this allows an ArrayList containing Machines or any objects that are subclasses of Machines.
* We can also use the *super* keyword instead of *extends*, which allows you to pass in anything that is a superclass of the class given. This is not very useful.

### 36. Anonymous Classes
```java
Machine myMachine = new Machine() {
  @Override public void start() {
    System.out.println("Camera snapping....");
  }
};
```
* Here we have made a new machine, but used the anonymous class to override the start method of the Machine class with a new start method of our own.
* We can also use anonymous classes with interfaces. Remeber methods in interface have no code (just method headers), so if we have an interface called Plant, we cannot make a new Plant using `Plant myPlant = new Plant();`. However, with anonymous classes, we can do this:
```java
Plant myPlant = new Plant() {
  public void grow() {
    System.out.println("Plant growing");
  }
}
```
* The interface had the method grow, but it was not defined. Here we have defined it using the anonymous class.

### 37. Reading Text Files
